---
layout: post
title: Level 01 Solution
updated: 2018-07-27 20:00
tags: [ctf, howto, binary exploit, tech]
---

## Observations

Let's take a look at the binary.

{% highlight shell %}
$ file main32
main32: ELF 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (GNU/Linux), statically linked, stripped
{% endhighlight %}

Nothing special here. Let's try our previous strategy by taking a look at the strings. But unfortunately it's not that simple as we see from the truncated output below.

{% highlight shell %}
$ strings main32
;;pa
\	A}a
`'<p
$<	N
yB88p
6	zN
	-99
O```
^l*O
UPX!
UPX!
{% endhighlight %}

But wait there's something at the end "UPX!". This is a hint in itself for someone with previous experience. Now let's assume we don't know anything.
Taking a look at the hint, we see another usefull tool calle `binwalk`. Examining the binary again using `binwalk`, which is a really great tool to keep around for CTFs.
We come across some interesting stuff...

{% highlight shell %}
$ binwalk main32

DECIMAL       HEXADECIMAL     DESCRIPTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0             0x0             ELF, 32-bit LSB executable, Intel 80386, version 1 (GNU/Linux)
249200        0x3CD70         Copyright string: "Copyright (C) 1996-2017 the UPX Team. All Rights Reserved. $"

{% endhighlight %}

Besides the ELF binary we see that we have some 'UPX' stuff. So what's this? A quick google and you will find that UPX is a free packer for executables.
What the hell is a packer? It's kind of a fancy word for a compressor. But it's a special kind. The packed executable is capable of unpacking itself into memory. That's why if you try to run the executable, it runs perfectly fine.
What this means is that when we try running strings on the executable it shows us the strings from the packed file. So let's unpack this executable.
You can get the utility to unpack from [here]().

Let's unpack the file.

{% highlight shell %}
$ upx -d main32
                       Ultimate Packer for eXecutables
                          Copyright (C) 1996 - 2017
UPX 3.94        Markus Oberhumer, Laszlo Molnar & John Reiser   May 12th 2017

        File size         Ratio      Format      Name
   --------------------   ------   -----------   -----------
    657636 <-    275636   41.91%   linux/i386    main32

Unpacked 1 file.
{% endhighlight %}

Now lets run "strings"

{% highlight shell %}
$ strings main32 | grep 'flag'
WARNING: Unsupported flag value(s) of 0x%x in DT_FLAGS_1.
s->_flags2 & _IO_FLAGS2_FORTIFY
version == NULL || (flags & ~(DL_LOOKUP_ADD_DEPENDENCY | DL_LOOKUP_GSCOPE_LOCK)) == 0
imap->l_type == lt_loaded && (imap->l_flags_1 & DF_1_NODELETE) == 0
<flag_here>
_dl_x86_hwcap_flags
_dl_stack_flags
_dl_x86_cap_flags
{% endhighlight %}

And that's how we solve this level.

### Files
[Level 01](https://github.com/dsouzadyn/ctfing/tree/master/binary/01)
